The Netsapiens Endpoints Module User Guide provides an overview of how the Endpoints module works and how to use its core features. It explains how to add and manage devices and gateways, as well as how to configure the various parameters associated with them. The document is intended to help users understand and effectively use the tools available within the Netsapiens Endpoints module.
The Endpoints module handles the provisioning of phones and analog telephone adapters (ATAs). It does this by generating configuration files for each make and model of phone based on the parameters you set in the SNAPsolution system.
The Endpoints module can also host firmware and boot ROMs, allowing you to upgrade or downgrade phones.In addition, the Endpoints module functions as a syslog server. Phones can be configured to send syslog data to the Endpoints module, and these entries can be viewed in the Events table.

The Endpoints module login credentials do not change when you update the Core Module password, as these modules do not have a one-to-one relationship. Therefore, be sure to change the default login credentials under System > Admin Accounts.
NetSapiens is responsible for supporting the Endpoints module, but not devices such as phones and ATAs. For device-specific support, contact the device manufacturer.
The Endpoints module generally supports new phone models, as long as they follow the configuration format of prior models. For example, as of the writing of this manual, Polycom has introduced the RealPresence Trio 8800, which uses the same UC file format as other phones and can be provisioned.
This guide references Polycom and Yealink devices, as they are the most popular within the SNAPsolution user base. However, other brands, such as Cisco, Grandstream, Panasonic, and others, can also be provisioned using the Endpoints module.
When a manufacturer introduces a new configuration file format, NetSapiens evaluates the popularity of that device and brand within the user base and may include native support for the phone in future releases.
The Endpoints module also includes a Custom File Format feature, which allows you to add support for nearly any device. The Endpoints module also functions as a syslog server. Phones can be configured to send syslog data to the Endpoints module, and these entries can be viewed in the Events table.

Follow below steps to log in to the Netsapiens Endpoints module.
1.Launch a web browser.
2.In the browser address bar, enter https://<endpoints-FQDN>/ndp/adminlogin.php.
3.On the login page, enter the default username and password (both are tac on a new system). For security, each character typed in the password field is masked with a dot.
4.Click Login.

Netsapiens Endpoints module phone Model Compatibility
Every phone manufacturer uses a different configuration file format, and some manufacturers even vary the format between models within the same brand. For example, some configuration files are plain text, while others are XML. Each company also uses different parameters and formatting.
The Endpoints module abstracts these differences by handling configuration formats for a variety of popular phone makes and models.
For example:
• Polycom uses older “SIP” and newer “UC” configuration file formats.
• Yealink uses M1, M3, and M7 configuration file formats.
• Grandstream uses an older encrypted file format and a newer XML format.

Netsapiens Endpoints module Provisioning Overview
At boot, phones attempt to retrieve a configuration file from a provisioning service. The location of the configuration file can be set via Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) options, manual entry on the phone, or redirection services such as Polycom’s ZTP and Yealink’s RPS.
If the phone successfully retrieves the configuration file(s), it attempts to apply the new configuration. Depending on the phone, it may also attempt a boot ROM or firmware upgrade.

Phones can be added through  either the user Portal or the Endpoints Admin UI.

Adding a Phone through the Netsapiens User Portal
After logging in to the Portal, user  can add a phone using the Add Phone page by following the below steps.
1.Click Inventory, then select the Phone Hardware tab.
2.Click Add Phone. The Add Phone page appears with the Basic tab displayed.
3.On the Basic tab, complete the required fields.
4.Click Save to add the phone.
5.Repeat steps 2 through 4 to add a second phone.

Adding a Phone Using the Netsapiens Endpoints module Admin portal.
1.Go to Configurations > Devices.
2.Click Add Configuration.
3.On the first screen:
a. Enter the MAC address of the device. Omit any formatting such as dashes or colons.
b. Select the model of the device and the SiPbx Server or Domain. The SiPbx Server appears as an option if the Endpoints module configures devices on multiple Cores; otherwise, Domain appears as an option.
c. Click Select to continue.
4.If prompted, select the domain and then click Select Domain.
5.Finally, you are taken to a page to associate lines with the device. After assigning the lines, click Create to save the new device.

By default, the phone uses the first firmware listed in the Available Firmware list. Follow below steps to select a different firmware
1.In the Endpoints Admin UI, go to Configurations > Devices.
2.Identify the device you want to edit, and click the link in the Used Lines column.
3.On the device edit page, locate the firmware entry and select the specific firmware you want to assign to the device.

Netsapiens Endpoints module default parameters
3 types of default parameters exist in the Netsapiens Endpoints module. Those are Domain specific Default parameters, Brand  specific Default parameters and Device  specific Default parameters.

Domain specific default parameters  apply to all the phones only in a specific domain.  Follow Below steps to add Domain specific Default parameters  in the Endpoints module
1. In Endpoints Admin UI, go to Configurations > Defaults > Domain Specific.
2. Click Add.
3. Complete the fields.
4. Click Create

Brand-specific defaults affect only phones of that brand. The parameter applies only to the phones of that brand within the specified domain. Follow Below steps to  add  Brand specific Defaults in the Netsapiens Endpoints module.
1. In Endpoints Admin UI, go to Configurations > Defaults > Any brand.
2. Click Add.
3. Complete the fields
4. Click Create

Device  specific Default parameters applies to  one specific phone only.Follow Below steps to  add Device  specific Defaults in the Endpoints module.
1. In Endpoints Admin UI, go to Configurations > Devices.
2. Identify the device you want to edit, and then click the link below the Device Model column.
3. In the Overrides field, enter the parameters and values using the format parameter=”value”. Enter multiple parameters on separate lines.
4. Click Modify

user can assign only one active phone to an extension at a time. For example, if extension 100 is assigned to the handset 0080F0C8C645, this extension cannot be
assigned to another handset. If you require more than one handset to be associated with the
same extension, the additional handsets will be 100a, 100b, and so on


Adding a Phone Using the Endpoints Admin UI
The procedure for adding a phone using the Endpoints Admin UI varies a bit, depending on
whether your Endpoints Module is associated with one or many Cores and whether geo-redundancy is enabled.


Analog gateways are similar to phones/ATAs, with two major differences . Analog gateways support trunks (one trunk’s registration can be associated to many line which the gateway device will hunt)
Analog gateways support devices up to 24 ports A few examples of gateways include the Linksys/Cisco SPA8000 and Grandstream GXW-4008.
Follow Below steps to  add  an Analog Gateway in the Netsapiens Endpoints module
1. Go to Configurations > Gateways > Analog.
2. After entering the MAC and selecting the server and domain, a screen similar to the
following allows you to assign trunks and lines.
3. After you set the trunks/lines, click Create to add the device.


Configuration files are generated on-the-fly by combining the brand defaults and overrides into a configuration file format suitable for the phone model. Parameters are defined by the
phone manufacturer and usually described in an Administrator’s or Provisioning Guide.
To enable multicast paging on a Polycom phone, for example, refer to the Polycom UC
Software Admin Guide for the following parameter:
To do the same for a Yealink phone, refer to the Yealink Administrator’s Guide for the
following parameters
To enable multicast paging on a Yealink, set:
• linekey.2.type=”66”
multicast.paging_address.1.ip_address=”224.5.6.20:10008”
• multicast.paging_address.1.label=”Page All”
Each manufacturer’s Administrator’s or Provisioning Guide contains useful parameters for
customizing phones. Best practices dictate that you read these guides for all lines of phones
you intend to support.+

Setting the Scope of a Parameter
Parameters can be set in different places depending upon to which phones you want the
parameters applied.

Follow Below steps to Enter  a Brand Default in the Endpoints module
Brand defaults apply to  all the phones for a specific brand.
1. In Endpoints Admin UI, go to Configurations > Defaults > select a brand.
2. Click Add.
3. Complete the fields
4. Click Create

Model defaults apply to all the phones for a specific model. Follow Below steps to Enter  a model Default in the Endpoints module
1. In the Endpoints Admin UI, go to System > Device Definitions.
2. Click the Model field and select the VVX 310 phone.
3. In the Overrides field of the edit screen, enter the parameter using the format
parameter=”value”. To enter multiple parameters, place each parameter on a separate
line.


After all deployed phones have the username and password set, and new phones receive
that information via pre-provisioning, you’re ready to enable password protection. Follow Below steps to  Enable  Password Protection for the device added to the Netsapiens Endpoints module
1. In the Endpoints Admin UI, go to System > Configuration.
2. Add or edit the following properties:
– PasswordProtectFiles = set to yes to enable password protection.
– username: enter the authentication username you selected.
– Password = enter the authentication password you selected.
3. Optional: Set PerDevicePasswords to yes to allow overriding the default username and
password at the MAC level. Then, when you edit a phone in the Endpoints Admin UI, there
will be fields to set the username and password just for this device

The following sections describe bootroms and firmware.
A bootrom is low-level software designed to power on the phone, start the network, and load
the firmware. Separate bootroms files apply to phones running 3.3 firmware or lower. In
UC4, firmware and bootroms are combined into one file. Depending on the version of
firmware you want to load, you must have the proper bootrom loaded on the Endpoints
module. In the following example, we will load bootrom 4.3.1 for a SoundPoint 550, so the phone can use firmware 3.3.5.
1. Launch a browser, go to the Polycom website, and download the bootrom and release
notes.
2. After the bootrom file is downloaded, unzip it.
3. Locate the unzipped folder, which will be a file full of bootroms named similarly to 3111-
30900-001.bootrom.ld. In the release notes, find a table relating each model to the
bootrom filename(s). In our example, we will load 2345-12500-001.bootrom.ld for the
SoundPoint 550.
4. In the Endpoints module, go to System > Files and Firmwares, and then click Upload
File.
5. Complete the fields
6. Click Start File Upload and wait for the upload to complete. Polycom phones request a
new bootrom automatically by exact filename at each boot. Therefore, load the filename
without renaming it. All phones on your Endpoints module must run the same bootrom
version.

Below section describes the Firmware of the phone
Loading firmware is a lot like loading bootroms. However, you can rename the firmware file
and assign different firmware versions to the same model phone.Split or Combined Firmware
Polycom offers each firmware in two formats:
• Split
• Combined
The split file breaks out each model’s firmware into separate files. The combined file is one
file that contains firmware for all compatible phones. While using a combined file sounds
easier to use than using a split file, the combined file is large (around 300 MB). A split file, by
comparison, is about 45 MB. If you have a large number of phones upgrading at the same
time, using split files can save time and resources.Uploading Firmware
In this example, we will load firmware 5.4.2 rev D for a VVX 310 phone.
1. Launch a browser, go to the Polycom website, and download the split firmware and release
notes.
2. After the firmware file is downloaded unzip it.
3. Locate the unzipped folder, which will be full of firmware files, named something like 3111-
30900-001.sip.ld.
4. In the release notes, find a table relating each model to the firmware filenames. In our
example we must load 3111-46161-001.sip.ld for the VVX 310.
5. In the Endpoints module, go to System > Files and Firmwares, and then click Upload
File.
6. Complete the fields
7. Click Start File Upload and wait for the upload to complete.


After firmware is uploaded, you must add it to the device definitions, so it can be loaded to
phones. The Endpoints module can have multiple firmware versions loaded for each phone
and you can select which version for each handset/MAC. Follow below steps to Add Firmware to the Device Definitions
1. Go to System > Device Definitions and select the phone you want to edit (VVX 310 in
our example).
2. In the Available Firmware field, enter the filename of the firmware uploaded to make it
available to the phone. If you want different versions as options, create a comma-
separated list of each filename. The first firmware on the list will be the “model default” that
will be the firmware provided to all phones of that model, unless another version is
specified.
3. Click Create


How the Endpoints Module Decides Which Configuration File to Use
Selecting a configuration file format is set as a parameter of each model definition. To review
and change configuration file formats
1. In the Endpoints module Admin UI, go to System>Device Definitions.
2. In the list of device definitions find the NDP Code Structure column, which specifies the
configuration format that the model will use.
3. Edit the device to change the code structure used for that model.
4. To support two different code structures for the same model, create a second device
definition for that model, one for each code structure
Selecting the Right Firmware

Uploading Firmware
In this example, we will load firmware 29.73.0.28.zip for a T42.
1. Launch a browser, go to the Yealink website, and download the firmware file.
2. Unzip the firmware file. After the file is unzipped, you’ll have a file similar to
29.73.0.28.rom.
3. To load the new file to the Endpoints module, go to System > Files and Firmwares, and
then click Upload File.
4. After you complete the fields, click Start File Upload and wait for the upload to complete.
Selecting Firmware
After you upload the firmware, add an override to tell the phone which file to use. We set this
as a model default in Device Definitions, although it can also be set as a Handset/MAC
override. To do so, the override is firmware.url=”http://<Endpoints-
FQDN>/frm/<filename>”.
Do not set firmware.url as a brand or domain default because it could apply firmware to a
different phone model.
Upgrading from 6x to 7x Firmware
To upgrade phones running version 6x firmware to version 7x firmware, send the phone a
Yealink/M1 format configuration file with the new firmware information. The following
procedure describes the easiest way to perform this step, but there are other ways to do
this.
When booting a Yealink phone, the phone looks for a common or “y” file. For a T26, the
filename is y000000000004.cfg.
Note: The common file number does not correlate with the firmware model number.
In this file, you can place commands in the Yealink/M1 format to upgrade to new firmware
The following is a template of the common file contents for upgrading firmware
1. Copy and paste the above into a plain-text file.
2. Replace <Your-Endpoints_IP> with the IP or FQDN of your Endpoints module.
3. Replace <filename>.rom with the filename of the 7x firmware for the specific phone
model.
4. Save the file with the common file name and upload to Files and Firmware section in the
Endpoints Admin UI.
5. Reboot the phones to have them apply the new firmware.
For more information, refer to the V70 Upgrading Manual, which you can download from the
Yealink website.
Which Version Firmware Should I Run?
NetSapiens completed Yealink’s Compatibility Test plan using select models running
firmware versions 72 and 73. However, new firmware versions include security
improvements, bug fixes, and new features. In addition, new phone models (T49g, and so
on) require newer firmware.
Before deploying new firmware to customers, we recommend you:
• Keep a lab of your most commonly sold phones before deploying new firmware to
customers.
• Test the new firmware with your lab phones against your standard system/network
configurations.
Running a New Device Not in the Device List
There might be situations when you want to run a new device that is not in the device list.
There are two cases for this situation:
• The new device uses the same configuration file as other provisionable devices. For
example, Polycom releases a VVX 800 that uses the same UC configuration format as
other VVX phones.
• The new device uses a different configuration file than other provisionable devices. For
example, the Algo door phone does not use the same format or parameters as other
devices.
Generally speaking new devices in the same brand use the same configuration file format.
But there are exceptions, which can be solved with the Custom File Format.
Phones that are not from the same brand as other provisionable devices likely will need a
custom file format.
New Device with an Existing Format
For devices that use the same configuration file format as other phones, adding a new
device configuration is fairly simple.
1. In the Endpoints Admin UI, go to System > Device Definitions, and then click Add.
2. Complete the fields (see Table 5-1).
3. Click Create.
After a new configuration is defined, the Endpoints module is ready to configure the new
phone model.
New Device without an Existing Format
The custom file format allows you to provision nearly any brand of phone by defining your
own configuration file formats.
This works by allowing you to take a properly formatted configuration file template for a
given device, and then add wildcards that the Endpoints module completes with values such
as the proxy and user to make an operational configuration file.
Observe the following guidelines:
• Compatible devices are those that accept a text/XML configuration file. Binary or
encrypted configuration files are not supported.
• You must run Endpoints module version 1225 or later.
• The new API must be used for the Core connection (see Chapter 7 if unsure).
• Brand defaults and device/model/MAC overrides do not apply to custom format-
provisioned devices.
• Directories are not available to be applied to custom format provisioned devices.
• Custom formats can configure a maximum of eight lines on a device.
• Use a plain-text editor such as Notepad++ to edit and save configuration files. Do not use
programs such as Microsoft Word, which add extra formatting.
Making the Configuration File
To make the configuration file:
1. Obtain a configuration file for the device in question. The easiest to way to start is to
provision the device manually, and then export the configuration. If this is not an option,
obtain the provisioning file format from the manufacturer.
2. Edit the file with the default values you want applied to all phones (admin password,
registration period, and so on). Fill in the wildcards for fields such as user, password,
domain, and outbound proxy. The list of wildcards is shown below:
Some parameters have wildcards, while others do not. The registration interval
sip.regexp, for example, is the same for all devices. Other parameters, such as
sip.proxy, have a wildcard because that value varies, depending on the domain assigned.
Creating a New NDP Code Type
After you create a new template:
1. Upload the file with any name into the NDP Files and Firmware section.
2. In the Endpoints Admin UI, go to System > Custom Formats, and then click Add.
3. Specify the name of the format and filename you uploaded previously, and then click
Create.
Now that the format is set, you can follow the directions under “New Device with an Existing
Format” on page 39 to add the device definition.
Loading the Configuration File
Now that the configuration is made, add the device’s MAC like any normal device (see
Adding a Phone on page 12. In the device interface, look for the provisioning server
configuration (varies by make/model) and point the device to your Endpoints module.
Managing Pre/Postfix on the Requested Configuration File
If the phone doesn't configure:
1. In the Endpoints module, go to Diagnostics > Events.
2. Look for the configuration file that the phone requested. The Endpoints module must be
aware of the pre/postfix to strip from the filename to derive the MAC address. Common
pre/postfixes that are already stripped include .cfg, .conf, .html, and poly-.
3. If the phone has an unusual pre/postfix, such as foo000000000012.bar:
d. Go to System > Configuration.
e. Add the unusual values (for instance, foo and bar in our example) as a comma-
separated list to the configuration parameter PreParseStrip, as shown below:
. DIRECTORIES
Selecting a Directory
Directories can be selected using the Portal or the Endpoints Admin UI.
Using the Portal to Select a Directory
1. In Inventory, edit the phone.
2. Click the Advanced tab.
3. In the Directory field, click the directory that you want to apply to the phone.
4. Click Save.
Using the Admin UI to Select a Directory
1. In the Admin UI, click Configurations > Devices for the phone you want to edit.
2. Below the Directories column, click a link.
The Admin UI also provides a Presence toggle that might show the following options:
• BLF – shown for Polycom only. Select this option for UC firmware (defaults to BLF for
VVX).
• Enabled – configures presence (like BLF) to show on the phone.
• Disabled – no presence status appears for directory entries.
Creating a Custom Directory in the Directory Designer
Directory Designer allows you to create custom directories with more flexibility than the
automatic directories.
To create a custom directory:
1. In the Endpoints Admin UI, go to Configurations > Directory Designer.
2. Click Add
4. Click Create.
After you create a directory, you return to the directory listing, where you can modify your
directory by clicking Modify Directory.
When you edit a directory, a screen similar to the following appears.
The directory shows the list of users in the first five columns (these columns show the order,
but not necessarily the column placement on the phone). The Unused user entries column
allows you to place users you want to remove, but not delete, from the directory.
To rearrange users, drag and drop them in order between the Speed Dials columns and
Unused user entries column.
Table 6-3 describes the buttons at the bottom of this page.
Note: These directories do not update automatically. If you rename user 100 from Betty to
Susan in the Portal or Core Admin UI, for example, the directory does not automatically
reflect the change
7. CONNECTING TO CORES
Validating API Version
The Endpoints modules and Core(s) can communicate via the old or new API.
To check which is being used:
1. In the Endpoints Admin UI, go to System>Configuration.
2. Look for the parameter useOauth:
– If useOauth is set to yes, the new API is being used.
– If useOauth is missing or set to no, the old API is being used.
Note: Systems running version 1225 or later of the Endpoints module should use the new
API.
Geo Clusters
While phones have a primary Core assigned to them, enabling geo-redundancy allows the
phone to be programmed with other Core(s) in the cluster in case its primary Core suffers an
outage.
If you have geo-redundant Cores:
1. In the Endpoints Admin UI, go to System > Configuration.
2. Ensure that the parameter Redundancy is set to yes.
The group itself is defined in the Endpoints Admin UI:
1. Go to Configuration > SiPbx Servers.
2. In the column Redundancy Group, any Core that shares the same value of the
Redundancy Group field is part of the same geo cluster
Adding a New Core Node to the Endpoints Module
To add a new Core node to Endpoints module, collect information from the Core and ensure
its configured properly.
Preparing the Core
1. In the Admin UI of the Core Module, go to System > Settings > Advanced > Oauth
Clients.
2. Identify an existing Oauth credential for the Endpoints module or create a new one.
3. Copy the Client ID and Client Secret.
4. Go to Users > Configuration and edit or create a User with a Scope of NDP.
5. Copy and retain the Login Name.
6. Copy and retain the PIN.
Adding the Server to the Endpoints Module
The last step is to add the server to the Endpoints module.
1. In Endpoints Admin UI, go to Configurations > SiPbx Servers.
2. Click Add.
3. Complete the fields.
4. Click Create.
How Geo Redundancy Works
If you have geo-redundant Cores, your phones are automatically provisioned differently to
support this feature. Some phones accomplish this via service (SRV) records, while others
use a primary and backup proxy.
Phones like Cisco and Grandstream use the SRV record method. The SRV record
core.mycompany.com, for example, would contain DNS information for each Core in the
cluster, along with a priority. These phones register to the highest priority Core available.
Each phone manufacturer decides when to consider a Core unavailable and switch to a
backup Core, as well as when to switch back if a higher priority Core becomes available
again.
Other phones, like Polycom and Yealink (NDP 1225 or later), will dual register, maintaining
constant registration to two Cores. This has an advantage of faster recovery in case of
failure, but generally limits redundancy to two Cores only.
Yealink phones allow you to force SRV instead of dual registration If you have geo-redundant Cores, you can configure redundancy settings in the Endpoints
Admin UI by going to System > Configuration and setting the value of the parameter
Redundancy to yes.
The parameter Redundancy_default sets the default redundancy method. Acceptable
values are:
– none = disables geo.
– force primary = enables geo.When editing a MAC, you can override the default redundancy setting for the specific phone.
8. SECURITY
SAFE
SAFE is an intelligent filter that protects configuration files from dictionary attacks. SAFE
monitors requests for configuration files, and then adds to the score of the requester IP
address if they request a file for a MAC that does not exist. Files such as license files and
zero files are ignored.
SAFE was added in version 1224 and is enabled by default. To customize this setting:
1. In the Endpoints Admin UI, go to System > Configurations.
2. The following parameters can be set to configure SAFE:
– SAFE_whitelist = comma-separated list of IP addresses that will not be part of this
logic. To disable filtering, select *.
– SAFE_error_empty = yes returns an empty 200 ok message instead of a 403
message on error.
– SAFE_error_500 = yes returns a 503 message instead of a 403 message on error.
– SAFE_MaxFraudScore = maximum number of fail attempts permitted before a
permanent IP block is in place. Default is 50 (version 1225+).
Reviewing the SAFE Fraud Scores
SAFE versions 1225 and later allow you to see the current status of SAFE fraud scores:
1. Go to Diagnostics>Fraud Scores by IP.
2. To clear the fraud score for the IP, click Allow under the Action column.
Handset Security
Gaining registration credentials through handsets is the most common attack vector on any
system. To combat this vulnerability:
• Disable all local interfaces on the phone (web, Telnet, SSH, and so on), as local
configuration is generally not necessary with the Endpoints module.
Change the default passwords on phones and deploy them whenever possible behind a
NAT firewall rather than with a public IP
Password Protecting Files
This option requires the phone to authenticate when requesting a configuration file. While
this security measure is powerful, it is more difficult to deploy because each phone must be
preconfigured with this information. If you use this feature, prepare your system prior to
enabling this feature; otherwise, provisioning will fail.
Updating Deployed Phones
For phones already deployed, you can assign the username and password using overrides
and forcing a resync/reboot of the phones. For specific parameters, refer to the
manufacturer’s admin or provisioning guide.
Be sure to check the valid input range for the provisioning username and password on each
phone, then select a username and password for the system that are within the input ranges
for all phone brands you use. For example, if Panasonic allows you to enter up to 128
characters as the password, but Yealink allows only 32 characters, set your password to 32
characters or less to support both phones.
Provisioning New Phones
For future deployment of phones, the best way to assign usernames and passwords is to
use a pre-provisioning service, such as Polycom ZTP and Yealink RPS. Doing so ensures
that phones will automatically fetch this information, even after they are reset to factory
default settings.

Disabling TFTP
SAFE and password protection do not protect Trivial FTP (TFTP). Consequently, it is
preferred to provision phones using HTTP or HTTPS instead, and then disable TFTP
whenever possible.
For each phone model whose TFTP provisioning you want to disable.
Note: Older phones like the Cisco 79xx do not support HTTP/HTTPS. If you use these
phones, leave TFTP enabled for those models.
1. In the Endpoints Admin UI, go to System > Device Definitions.
2. Set Allow TFTP to no

Secure Admin Login
To protect your administrative login, ensure good quality passwords. Beyond that, you can
configure the web server to allow logins only from specific IP addresses you know.
Perform the following steps at the command line:
Note: The NetSapiens IP address is 66.185.162.140.
1. Edit or create the .htaccess file using the following command:
pico /usr/local/NetSapiens/ndp/.htaccess
2. Add the following information to the file
Order deny,allow
Deny from all
Allow from 127.0.0.1
Allow from <your IP>
Allow from 66.185.162.140
3. Reboot Apache:
service apache2 restart
9. DIAGNOSTICS AND LOGS

What is Sync
Sync refers to the endpoint pulling a configuration file from the Endpoints module. When
viewing the list of devices in the Configurations > Phones page of the Endpoints Admin UI,
three sync related columns appear next to each device.
Re-sync sends the message SIP NOTIFY to the phone to instruct it to pull a new
configuration file. Some devices reboot when they receive the re-sync message, while
others apply the new configuration without rebooting. The phone must be registered to a
Core for re-sync to be successful.
The Last sync of current cfg column shows the last time and date the endpoint pulled a
configuration file from the Endpoints module. The Cfg last changed column shows the last
time handset-specific changes (device overrides, line changes, directories, and so on) were
applied. These two timestamps can help identify whether the phone has a current
configuration and is in communication with the Endpoints module.

What are Events
Event is a history of specific details about endpoint communication. For example, when a
phone requests a configuration file, that request will be detailed along with any other
requested files such as licenses, ringtones, firmwares, and so on. Errors generated by bad
configuration parameters might also appear here. For example, a Cisco SPA device’s
configuration file runs through a Cisco “compiler” tool and errors are output to the Events
table. The Endpoints module collects boot and app logs from Polycom devices. These logs can be
viewed in the Diagnostics > Logs. Although these logs are rather terse, they can be helpful
for identifying handset problems (for example, wrong bootrom or firmware). Most commonly,
the logs will be sent to Polycom support for analysis when dealing with a phone problem.